Capstone 1- Project Milestone ReportThe original problem we aimed to solve was that, due to volatility nature of the cryptocurrency market, classical time series analysis (using historical prices alone) doesn’t perform very well when it comes to predicting cryptocurrency future price.  This capstone project explores the use of additional data such as correlation between the cointegrated coin and macroeconomic covariates to analyze the market, hoping that it will give us a better prediction of the future price.Potential data set:
1) XEM and IOT historical prices. (Source: Cryptocompare.com API link below)2) GoogleNews search frequency for the phrase "cryptocurrency"- This data should capture turning point events that affect the crytocurrency markets. (Source: Google Trends API link below)3) Subreddit subscription growth- Subreddits “CryptoCurrency”, “Nem”, and “Iota” subscription growth over 3 months period. This data should capture popularity and/or mainstream acceptance. (Source: Scraping the site redditmetrics.com)4) Google search frequency for the phrases “Nem wallet download”, “Iota wallet download”, “Nem price”, “Iota price”, “Bitcoin price"- This data should reflect the demand. Original plan was to get the node count (number of wallet in use) or number of wallet software downloaded. However, there was no available API's that provide historical data for this. (Source: Google Trends API link below)5) AMD and Nvidia stock prices- The top 2 semiconductor companies used for coin mining. (Source: Yahoo! Financials)6) Google search frequency for the phrase “GPU for mining”- I expect this data to capture the increased demand for coin mining. (Source: Google Trends API link below)7) Ratio of “demand" over market cap of Nem and Iota- This data should signal over/under price.  (Source: Coinmarketcap.com)Initial findings: 
1) Based on statistical inference and EDA of BTC/ETH prices and GoogleNews search frequency of the word “cryptocurrency”, we found that:- There is a high correlation between the rise in Google search frequency and the drop in currencies prices- There is a low correlation between an observation and it’s lag 1 (historical price)- No obvious trend and seasonality observed in the price data- BTC and ETH price spike is more “rapid” than fall. The prices (scaled) converged during fall, but not spike2) We performed Granger Causality Test on all of the 132 possible pairs constructed from the 12 "most popular" coins. DASH_BCH was previously selected as the cointegrated pair with the strongest correlation. However, with further research, we found out that the strong correlation was due to surge in Korean trading. Therefore, we instead picked XEM_IOT as our cointegrated pair since it has the strongest correlation under normal condition. For the purpose of this project, IOT historical prices will be used as one of XEM price predictors.

Links:

Google Trends APIhttps://github.com/GeneralMills/pytrends/blob/master/README.md#api-methodsCryptocompare.com APIhttps://www.cryptocompare.com/api/#-api-data-histohour-